---
title: "A dynamic hypergraph attention network: Capturing market-wide spatiotemporal dependencies for stock selection"
venue: 'Applied Soft Computing'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1016/j.asoc.2024.112524'
---

## Abstract
As more companies choose to go public to raise additional funds, investors are confronted with the challenge of choosing high-quality stocks from a multitude of options to generate returns on investment. In recent years, various deep learning models have been utilized to explore spatiotemporal dependencies through the analysis of historical price indicators of individual stocks and related stocks for stock selection. However, despite advancements in these models, they neglect the dynamic influence of global market-wide information on spatiotemporal dependencies of stocks. Focusing solely on stock-specific dependencies limits their ability to learn comprehensive spatiotemporal representations. To address this limitation, we propose a novel market-wide dynamic hypergraph attention network (MDHAN) for stock selection. The key of MDHAN is introducing an attention-based market-impacted GRU (att-MGRU) and an attention-based market-impacted dynamic hypergraph neural network (att-MHGNN). Specifically, The att-MGRU is a variant of GRU, which employs a fusion gate to capture daily market-wide temporal influences on each stock and a temporal attention mechanism to discern the contributions of historical influences across different trading days. The att-MHGNN first constructs a dynamic market-impacted hypergraph to model the market's influence on stock relationships, which is then fed into an attention-based hypergraph neural network to extract the spatial dependencies influenced by the market. By conducting experiments on four real world datasets from China and the US, covering a span of four years, we demonstrate that MDHAN significantly outperforms state-of-the-art methods.
## Key words
Stock selection， Hypergraph neural network, Time series analysis, Portfolio management